# HTML Tables

The HTML <table> element allows web authors to display tabular data (such as text, images, links, other tables,etc.) in a two dimensional table with rows and columns of cells.
It does not take the full page but takes onlys space for available items.

A table is divided into rows with the <tr> tag, and each row is divided into data cells using the <td> tag. The letters td stand for “table data,” which is the content of
a data cell. A data cell can contain text, images, lists, paragraphs, forms, horizontal rules, tables, and so on.

A basic table includes the following tags:

1. Each table starts with a table tag.
2. Each table row starts with a tr tag.
3. Each table data (cell) starts with a td tag.

`Table Borders`:- The border attribute controls the appearance of the table’s borders or lines. The default border is 0, so if you do not specify a border attribute, the table is displayed without any borders. Sometimes this is useful, but most of the time, you want the borders to be visible.

```html
<table border="1">
```

`Headings in a Table`:- Table headings are defined with the <th> tag.

```html
<!--Horizontal headers-->
<table border="1">
<tr>
   <th>Heading</th>
   <th>Another Heading</th>
</tr>
<tr>
   <td>row 1, cell 1</td>
   <td>row 1, cell 2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
   <td>row 2, cell 1</td>
   <td>row 2, cell 2</td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--Vertical  Headers-->
<table>
<tr>
   <th>Telephone:</th>
   <td>555 777 1855</td>
</tr>
</table>
```

`Empty Cells in a Table`:- Table cells with no content do not display very well in most browsers.You'll notice that the borders around the empty table cell are missing (except when using Mozilla Firefox).
To avoid this, add a nonbreaking space (&nbsp;) to empty data cells to ensure the borders are visible.

```html
<tr>
   <td>row 2, cell 1</td>
   <td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
```

TIP:- The <thead>,<tbody>, and <tfoot> elements are seldom used, because of bad browser support. Expect this to change in future versions of HTML.


`Caption`:

```html
<table border="6">
<caption>My Caption</caption>
```

`Cells Spanning Multiple Columns`: table cells can span more than one row or one column.

```html
<th colspan="2">Telephone</th>
<th rowspan="2">Telephone:</th>
```

`Tags Inside a Table`: you can display elements inside other elements of table.

```html
<tr>
   <td>This cell contains a list
    <ul>
      <li>apples</li>
      <li>bananas</li>
      <li>pineapples</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
<td>HELLO</td>
</tr>
```

`Cell Padding`: used for creating more white space between the cell content and its borders.

```html
<h4>With cellpadding:</h4>
<table border="1" cellpadding="10">
```

`Cell Spacing`: use cell spacing to increase the distance between the cells.

```html
<table border="1" cellspacing="10">
```

`Table Background Colors and Images`:

```htm
<table border="1" bgcolor="gray">
```

`Cell Background Colors and Images`:

```html
<tr bgColor="red">
   <td bgcolor="gray">First</td>
   <td>Row</td>
</tr>
<tr>
   <td background="bgdesert.jpg">Second</td>
   <td>Row</td>
</tr>
```

`Aligning Cell Content`: use the align attribute to align the content of cells to create a neatly organized table.

```html
<tr>
   <th align="left">Money spent on....</th>
   <th align="right">January</th>
   <th align="right">February</th>
</tr>
```

`scope`: scope is known as an enumerated attribute, meaning that it can have a value from a speciﬁc set of possible values.
This set includes:
col
row
colgroup
rowgroup

```html
<th scope="col">Column Heading 1</th>
<th scope="col">Column Heading 2</th>

<tr>
<th scope="row">Row Heading 1</th>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
```

HTML also provides the tables with the <thead>, <tbody>, <tfoot>, and <caption> elements. These additional elements are useful for adding semantic value to your tables and for providing a place for separate CSS styling.
When printing out a table that doesn't ﬁt onto one (paper) page, most browsers repeat the contents of <thead> on every page.
There's a speciﬁc order that must be adhered to, and we should be aware that not every element falls into place as one would expect.
