# Keywords

In C++, we can write structured programs and object-oriented programs also. C++ is a superset of C and therefore most constructs of C are legal in C++ with their meaning unchanged. However, there are some exceptions and additions.

Keywords(also known as reserved words)  have special meanings to the C++ compiler and are always written or typed in short(lower) cases.

1. asm: To declare that a block of code is to be passed to the assembler.
2. auto: A storage class specifier that is used to define objects in a block.
3. break: Breaks out of a loop or a switch block
4. case: Marks a block of code in switch statements
5. catch: Catches exceptions generated by try statements
6. char: A data type that can store a single character
7. class: Defines a class
8. const: Defines a variable or parameter as a constant (unchangeable) or specifies that a class method does not modify attributes of the class
9. continue; Continues to the next iteration of a loop
10. default: Specifies the default block of code in a switch statement
11. delete: Frees dynamic memory
12. do: Used together with while to create a do/while loop
13. double: A data type that is usually 64 bits long which can store fractional numbers
14. else: Used in conditional statements
15. enum: Declares an enumerated type
16. extern: An identifier specified as an extern has an external linkage to the block.
17. float: A data type that is usually 32 bits long which can store fractional numbers
18. for: Creates a for loop
19. friend: Specifies classes and functions which have access to private and protected members
20. goto: Jumps to a line of code specified by a label
21. if: Makes a conditional statement
22. inline: A function specifier that indicates to the compiler that inline substitution of the function body is to be preferred to the usual function call implementation.
23. int: A data type that is usually 32 bits long which can store whole numbers
24. long: Ensures that an integer is at least 32 bits long (use long long to ensure 64 bits)
25. new: Reserves dynamic memory
26. operator: Overloads a c++ operator with a new declaration.
27. private: An access modifier which makes a member only accessible within the declared class
28. protected: An access modifier which makes a member only accessible within the declared class and its children
29. public: An access modifier which makes a member accessible from anywhere
30. register: A storage class specifier that is an auto specifier, but which also indicates to the compiler that an object will be frequently used and should therefore be kept in a register.
31. return: Used to return a value from a function
32. short: Reduces the size of an integer to 16 bits
33. signed: Specifies that an int or char can represent positive and negative values (this is the default so the keyword is not usually necessary)
34. sizeof: An operator that returns the amount of memory occupied by a variable or data type
35. static: Specifies that an attribute or method belongs to the class itself instead of instances of the class.Specifies that a variable in a function keeps its value after the function ends
36. struct: Defines a structure
37. switch: Selects one of many code blocks to be executed
38. template: Declares a template class or template function
39. this: A variable that is available inside class methods and constructors which contians a pointer to a class instance
40. throw: Creates a custom error which can be caught by a try...catch statement
41. try: Creates a try...catch statement
42. typedef: Defines a custom data type
43. union: Similar to a structure, struct, in that it can hold different types of data, but a union can hold only one of its members at a given time.
44. unsigned: Specifies that an int or char should only represent positive values which allows for storing numbers up to twice as large
45. virtual: Specifies that a class method is virtual
46. void: Indicates a function that does not return a value or specifies a pointer to a data with an unspecified type
47. volatile: Define an object which may vary in value in a way that is undetectable to the compiler.
48. while: Creates a while loop
49. and: An alternative way to write the logical && operator
50. and_eq: An alternative way to write the &= assignment operator
51. bitand: An alternative way to write the & bitwise operator
52. bitor: An alternative way to write the | bitwise operator
53. bool: A data type that can only store true or false values
54. compl: An alternative way to write the ~ bitwise operator
55. false: A boolean value equivalent to 0
56. namespace: Declares a namespace
57. not: An alternative way to write the logical ! operator
58. not_eq: An alternative way to write the != comparison operator
59. or: An alternative way to write the logical || operator
60. or_eq: An alternative way to write the |= assignment operator
61. true: A boolean value equivalent to 1
62. using: Allows variables and functions from a namespace to be used without the namespace's prefix
63. xor: An alternative way to write the ^ bitwise operator
64. xor_eq:An alternative way to write the ^= assignment operator
