# What are Containers?

Containers are lightweight, portable, and isolated software environments that allow developers to run and package applications with their dependencies, consistently across different platforms. They help to streamline application development, deployment, and management processes while ensuring that applications run consistently, regardless of the underlying infrastructure.

## How do containers work?

Unlike traditional virtualization, which emulates a complete operating system with its hardware resources, containers share the host's OS kernel and leverage lightweight virtualization techniques to create isolated processes. This approach leads to several benefits, including:

- **Efficiency**: Containers have less overhead and can share common libraries and executable files, making it possible to run more containers on a single host compared to virtual machines (VMs).
- **Portability**: Containers encapsulate applications and their dependencies, so they can easily be moved and run across different environments and platforms consistently.
- **Fast startup**: Since containers don't need to boot a full OS, they can start up and shut down much faster than VMs.
- **Consistency**: Containers provide a consistent environment for development, testing, and production stages of an application, reducing the "it works on my machine" problem.

## Containers and Docker

Docker is a platform that simplifies the process of creating, deploying, and managing containers. It provides developers and administrators with a set of tools and APIs to manage containerized applications. With Docker, you can build and package application code, libraries, and dependencies into a container image, which can be distributed and run consistently in any environment that supports Docker.

- [@official@What is a container?](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container/)
- [@feed@Explore top posts about Containers](https://app.daily.dev/tags/containers?ref=roadmapsh)

## Need for Containers

In the world of software development and deployment, consistency and efficiency are crucial. Before containers came into the picture, developers often faced challenges when deploying applications across different environments including:

1. `Inconsistent environments`: Developers often work in different environments which might have different configurations and libraries compared to production servers. This leads to compatibility issues in deploying applications.
2. `Inefficient resource utilization`: Virtual Machines (VMs) were widely used to overcome environment inconsistency. However, VMs require an entire OS to be running for each application, making the resource utilization inefficient.
3. `Slow processes and scalability issues: `Traditional deployment methods have a slower time to market and scaling difficulties, which hinders fast delivery of software updates.

How Containers Address These Challenges is as follows:

- **Consistent environment:** Containers solve environment inconsistencies by bundling an application and its dependencies, configurations, and libraries into a single container. This guarantees that the application runs smoothly across different environments.
- **Efficient resource utilization:** Unlike VMs, containers share underlying system resources and OS kernel, which makes them lightweight and efficient. Containers are designed to use fewer resources and boot up faster, improving resource utilization.
- **Faster processes and scalability:** Containers can be easily created, destroyed, and replaced, leading to faster development and deployment cycles. Scaling applications becomes easier as multiple containers can be deployed without consuming significant resources.

Overall, containers have become an essential tool for organizations that want to respond quickly to market changes, improve resource efficiency, and ensure reliable and consistent software delivery. They have revolutionized modern software development practices and have long-lasting impact in the world of deployment and application management.

- [@article@Introduction to containers - AWS Skill Builder](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/106/introduction-to-containers)
- [@feed@Explore top posts about Containers](https://app.daily.dev/tags/containers?ref=roadmapsh)

## Bare Metal vs VM vs Containers

Here is a quick overview of the differences between bare metal, virtual machines, and containers.

### Bare Metal

Bare metal is a term used to describe a computer that is running directly on the hardware without any virtualization. This is the most performant way to run an application, but it is also the least flexible. You can only run one application per server, and you cannot easily move the application to another server.

### Virtual Machines

Virtual machines (VMs) are a way to run multiple applications on a single server. Each VM runs on top of a hypervisor, which is a piece of software that emulates the hardware of a computer. The hypervisor allows you to run multiple operating systems on a single server, and it also provides isolation between applications running on different VMs.

### Containers

Containers are a way to run multiple applications on a single server without the overhead of a hypervisor. Each container runs on top of a container engine, which is a piece of software that emulates the operating system of a computer. The container engine allows you to run multiple applications on a single server, and it also provides isolation between applications running on different containers.

Containers are created with doker run IMAGE and can be configured with various options/flags.

You can learn more from the following resources:

- [@article@History of Virtualization](https://courses.devopsdirective.com/docker-beginner-to-pro/lessons/01-history-and-motivation/03-history-of-virtualization)
- [@feed@Explore top posts about Containers](https://app.daily.dev/tags/containers?ref=roadmapsh)

```bash

docker container ls # List running containers
docker container ls -a # List all containers, including stopped ones

# Stopping a container
docker container stop f708b7ee1a8b # Stop a running container with a given container ID

# Running a container( docker run creates a new cotainer)
docker run -p 5000:5000 in28min/hello-world-python:0.0.1.RELEASE # Run a Docker container with a Python hello world application
docker run -p 5000:5000 in28min/hello-world-java:0.0.1.RELEASE # Run a Docker container with a Java hello world application
docker run -p 5000:5000 in28min/hello-world-nodejs:0.0.1.RELEASE # Run a Docker container with a Node.js hello world application
docker run -d -p 5000:5000 in28min/hello-world-nodejs:0.0.1.RELEASE # Run a Docker container with a Node.js hello world application in detached mode
docker run -d -p 5001:5000 in28min/hello-world-python:0.0.1.RELEASE # Run a Docker container with a Python hello world application in detached mode
docker run -it <image_name> #Runs image in interactive mode
docker run -rm <image_name> #Automatically removes container after stopping it.

docker run --name <container_name> <image_id> #start container and assign a name.
  
# Getting containers
docker ps #Lists all running containers
docker ps -a # Lists all ccontainers
docker ps --help

# Restarting stopped containers
docker start <container_name> #Using container name but runs in the background(detached mode)
docker start <container_id> #Using container id but runs in the background(detached mode)
docker start -a <container_name> #Using container name but runs in the attached mode(foreground)
docker start -a -i <container_name> # Runs in attached mode with interactive shell

# Attaching to detached container
docker attach <container_name>

# Docker container Logs
docker logs 04e52ff9270f5810eefe1f77222852dc1461c22440d4ecd6228b5c38f09d838e # View the logs of a Docker container
docker logs c2ba # View the logs of a Docker container with a given container ID or name
docker logs -f <container_name> #Attaches a detached container and shows the logs

# Removing unused containers
docker rm <container_name> <cntainer_name> # Removes multiple containers
docker container prune # Removes all stopped containers

# Copy files
docker cp <file_to_be _copied> <container_name:destination> # Copy files into the of running container
docker cp <container_name:destination>  <file_to_be _copied>  #Copy files out of running container

# Remove a Docker container with a given container ID or name
docker container rm 3e657ae9bd16

# List all containers, including stopped ones
docker container ls -a

# Pause a running container with a given container ID or name
docker container pause 832

# Unpause a paused container with a given container ID or name
docker container unpause 832

# Stop a running container with a given container ID or name
docker container stop 832

# Inspect a Docker container with a given container ID or name
docker container inspect ff521fa58db3

# Remove all stopped containers
docker container prune

```
