# Data Persistence in Docker

Docker enables you to run containers that are isolated pieces of code, including applications and their dependencies, separated from the host operating system. Containers are ephemeral by default, which means any data stored in the container will be lost once it is terminated. To overcome this problem and retain data across container lifecycles, Docker provides various data persistence methods.

Data includes:- 

1. `Appliaction(e.g Code and Environments)` - Written and provided by developer.Added to image and container in build phase.It is fixed can't be changed once image is built.READ-ONLY,hence stored in images.
2. `Temporary App Data(e.g Entered user input)` - Fetched/Produced in running container.Stored in memory or temporary files.Dynamic and changing but cleared regularly.READ + WRITE,temporary,hence stored in Containers.
3. `Permanent App Data(e.g user accounts)`:- Fetched/Produced in running container.Stored in files or a database.Must not be lost if container stops/restarts.READ + WRITE,permanent,stored in containers and volumes.

## Ephemeral FS

By default, the storage within a Docker container is ephemeral, meaning that any data changes or modifications made inside a container will only persist as long as the container is running. Once the container is stopped and removed, all the associated data will be lost. This is because Docker containers are designed to be stateless by nature.

This temporary or short-lived storage is called the "ephemeral container file system". It is an essential feature of Docker, as it enables fast and consistent deployment of applications across different environments without worrying about the state of a container.

As any data stored within the container's ephemeral FS is lost when the container is stopped and removed, it poses a challenge to data persistence in applications. This is especially problematic for applications like databases, which require data to be persisted across multiple container life cycles.

To overcome these challenges, Docker provides several methods for data persistence, such as:

- **Volumes**: A Docker managed storage option, stored outside the container's FS, allowing data to be persisted across container restarts and removals.Managed by Docker.
- **Bind mounts**: Mapping a host machine's directory or file into a container, effectively sharing host's storage with the container.Managed by you.
- **tmpfs mounts**: In-memory storage, useful for cases where just the persistence of data within the life-cycle of the container is required.

By implementing these strategies, Docker ensures that application data can be preserved beyond the life-cycle of a single container, making it possible to work with stateful applications.

## Volume Mounts

Volume mounts are a way to map a folder or file on the host system to a folder or file inside a container. This allows the data to persist outside the container even when the container is removed. Additionally, multiple containers can share the same volume, making data sharing between containers easy.

There are two types of volumes:-

1. Anonymous volumes:- Exists only when container exists.It is created for a specific container.Cannot be shared across containers.Survives container shutdown/restart unless --rm used.Since it is anonymous,it can't be re-used(even on same image) -v /app/data
2. Named volumes:- Created in general and is not tied to specific container.survives container shutdown/restart.Can be shared across containers.Can be reused for same containers.-v /app/data:/app

For both volumes, Docker sets up a folder /path on your host machine.The exact location is unknown to you(=dev).Managed via docker volume commands.

Volumes persist if a container shuts down.If a container re-starts and mounts a volume,any data inside of that volume is available in container.A container can write data into a voulme and read from it.

Creating a Volume:-

To create a volume in Docker, you need to run the following command:

```bash
docker volume create my-volume
```

To check current volumes

```bash
docker volume ls
```

This command will create a volume named `my-volume`. You can inspect the details of the created volume using the command:

```bash
docker volume inspect my-volume
```

Mounting a Volume in a Container:-

To mount a volume to a container, you need to use the `-v` or `--mount` flag while running the container. Here's an example:

Using `-v` flag:

```bash
docker run -d -v my-volume:/data your-image
```

Using `--mount` flag:

```bash
docker run -d --mount source=my-volume,destination=/data your-image
```

In both examples above, `my-volume` is the name of the volume we created earlier, and `/data` is the path inside the container where the volume will be mounted.

Sharing Volumes Between Containers:-

To share a volume between multiple containers, simply mount the same volume on multiple containers. Here's how to share `my-volume` between two containers running different images:

```bash
docker run -d -v my-volume:/data1 image1
docker run -d -v my-volume:/data2 image2
```

In this example, `image1` and `image2` would have access to the same data stored in `my-volume`.

Removing a Volume:-

To remove a volume, you can use the `docker volume rm` command followed by the volume name:

```bash
docker volume rm my-volume
docker volume prune # Removes all unused volumes
```

Docker volumes location:-

Windows:- C\ProgramData\docker\volumes
Linux:- /var/lib/docker/volumes


## Bind Mounts

Bind mounts have limited functionality compared to volumes. When you use a bind mount, a file or directory on the host machine is mounted into a container. The file or directory is referenced by its absolute path on the host machine. By contrast, when you use a volume, a new directory is created within Docker’s storage directory on the host machine, and Docker manages that directory’s contents.

The file or directory does not need to exist on the Docker host already. It is created on demand if it does not yet exist. Bind mounts are very performant, but they rely on the host machine’s filesystem having a specific directory structure available.

They are great for persistent, editable data e.g souce code.Location is on host file system,not tied to any specific container.It survives container shutdown/restart.Can be shared across conatiners and can be reused for same contaienr.

```bash
docker run -d -v /home/collins/Documents/13.DevOps/ToolsCorn:/data:ro <your-image> # The :ro tells docker that it is read only.
```

The docker should be able to access the folder you are binding to docker.
