# Container Registries

A `Container Registry` is a centralized storage and distribution system for container images. It allows developers to easily share and deploy applications in the form of these images. Container registries play a crucial role in the deployment of containerized applications, as they provide a fast, reliable, and secure way to distribute container images across various production environments.

`Docker registries` are services that make repositories accessible to Docker pull commands. A registry hosts repositories. The simplest way to distribute your images is by using hosted registries.

A `hosted registry` is a Docker registry service that’s owned and operated by a third-party vendor. Docker Hub, Quay.io, and Google Container Registry are all examples of hosted registry providers. By default, Docker publishes to Docker Hub. Docker Hub and most other hosted registries provide both public and private registries
Hosted registries offer both public and private repositories with automated build tools. By contrast, running a private registry lets you hide and customize your image distribution infrastructure.

`A distribution spectrum` - The image distribution spectrum offers many methods with differing levels of flexibility and complexity. The methods that provide the most flexibility can be the most complicated to use, whereas those that are the simplest to use are generally the most restrictive.

1. Hosted registry with public repositories - Docker Hub,Quay.io
2. Hosted registry with private repositories - Docker Hub,Quay.io,gcr.io
3. Private registries - Local private network,Corporate network,private cloud infrastructure
4. Custom image distribution infrastructure - SFTP,HTTP downloads,Confgi management tools.
5. Image source distributions - Include a Dockerfile with your project source code.

Below is a list of popular container registries available today:

1. Docker Hub: Docker Hub is the default registry for public Docker images and serves as a platform for sharing and distributing images among developers.
2. Artifact Registry: Artifact Registry is a managed container registry provided by Google Cloud Platform (GCP), offering private storage and distribution of container images.
3. Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR): Amazon ECR is a fully-managed Docker container registry provided by Amazon Web Services, offering high scalability and performance for storing, managing, and deploying container images.
4. Azure Container Registry (ACR): ACR is a managed registry provided by Microsoft Azure, offering Geo-replication, access control, and integration with other Azure services.

## Sharing images

1. Share a Dockerfile - Simply run <docker build .>. Dockerfile instructions might need sorrounding files/folders(e.g source code).
2. Share a built image - Download an image,run a container based on it.No build step required,everything is included in the image already.


## DockerHub

[DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/) is a cloud-based registry service provided by Docker Inc. It is the default public container registry where you can store, manage, and distribute your Docker images. DockerHub makes it easy for other users to find and use your images or to share their own images with the Docker community.

- **Features of DockerHub**:-
   1. `Public and private repositories`: Store your images in public repositories that are accessible to everyone, or opt for private repositories with access limited to your team or organization.
   2. `Automated Builds`: DockerHub integrates with popular code repositories such as GitHub and Bitbucket, allowing you to set up automated builds for your Docker images. Whenever you push code to the repository, DockerHub will automatically create a new image with the latest changes.
   3. `Webhooks`: DockerHub allows you to configure webhooks to notify other applications or services when an image has been built or updated.
   4. `Organizations and Teams`: Make collaboration easy by creating organizations and teams to manage access to your images and repositories.
   5. `Official Images`: DockerHub provides a curated set of official images for popular software like MongoDB, Node.js, Redis, etc. These images are maintained by Docker Inc. and the upstream software vendor, ensuring that they are up-to-date and secure.

To start using DockerHub, you need to create a free account on their website. Once you've signed up, you can create repositories, manage organizations and teams, and browse the available images.

When you're ready to share your own images, you can use the `docker` command line tool to push your local images to DockerHub.
Publishing images on Docker Hub with the docker command-line tool requires that you establish an authenticated session with that client. You can do that with the login command:

```bash
docker login
```

This command will prompt you for your username, email address, and password. Each of those can be passed to the command as arguments using the --username, --email, and --password flags. When you log in, the docker client maintains a map of your credentials for the different registries that you authenticate with in a file. It will specifically store your username and an authentication token, not your password.

```bash
docker tag your-image your-username/your-repository:your-tag
docker push your-username/your-repository:your-tag

docker logout # Logs out
```

You will be able to push your repository to the hosted registry after you’ve logged in. Use the docker push command to do so:

```sh
docker image push <insert Docker Hub username>/hello-dockerfile
```

The command output includes upload statuses and the resulting repository content digest. The push operation will create the repository on the remote registry, upload each of the new layers, and then create the appropriate tags.
Your public repository will be available to the world as soon as the push operation is completed. Verify that this is the case by searching for your username and your new repository. For example, use the following command to find the example owned by the dockerinaction user:

```sh
docker search dockerinaction
```

To pull images from DockerHub, you can use the `docker pull` command:

```bash
docker pull your-username/your-repository:your-tag
```

DockerHub is essential for distributing and sharing Docker images, making it easier for developers to deploy applications and manage container infrastructure.

## DockerHub Alternatives

In this section, we will discuss some popular alternatives to DockerHub. These alternatives provide a different set of features and functionalities that may suit your container registry needs. Knowing these options will enable you to make a more informed decision when selecting a container registry for your Docker images.

- **Quay.io** - [Quay.io](https://quay.io/) by Red Hat is a popular alternative to DockerHub that offers both free and paid plans. It provides an advanced security feature called "Container Security Scanning," which checks for vulnerabilities in the images stored in your repository. Quay.io also provides features like automated builds, fine-grained user access control, and Git repository integration.
- **Artifact Registry** - [Artifact Registry](https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry) is a container registry service provided by Google Cloud Platform (GCP). It offers a fully managed, private Docker container registry that integrates with other GCP services like Cloud Build, Cloud Run, and Kubernetes Engine. Artifact Registry provides features like vulnerability scanning, access control, and artifact versioning.
- **Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR)** - [Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR)](https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/) is a fully-managed Docker container registry by Amazon Web Services (AWS) that simplifies the process of storing, managing, and deploying Docker images. With ECR, you can control access to your images using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies. ECR also integrates with other AWS services, such as Lambda, Amazon ECS, and ECR image scanning.
- **Azure Container Registry (ACR)** - [Azure Container Registry (ACR)](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/container-registry/) is Microsoft Azure's container registry offering. It provides a wide range of functionalities, including geo-replication for high availability, ACR Tasks for automated image building, container scanning for vulnerabilities, and integration with Azure Pipelines for CI/CD. ACR also offers private network access using Virtual Networks and Firewalls.
- **GitHub Container Registry (GHCR)** - [GitHub Container Registry (GHCR)](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/guides/about-github-container-registry) is the container registry service provided by GitHub. It enhances the support for Docker in GitHub Packages by providing a more streamlined experience for managing and deploying Docker images. GHCR provides fine-grained access control, seamless integration with GitHub Actions, and support for storing both public and private images.

In conclusion, there are several DockerHub alternatives available, each with different features and capabilities. The choice of a container registry should be based on your requirements, such as security, scalability, cost-efficiency, or integration with other services. By exploring these options, you can find the most suitable container registry for your project.

- Image Tagging Best Practices

Properly tagging your Docker images is crucial for efficient container management and deployment. In this section, we will discuss some best practices for image tagging.

1. Use Semantic Versioning - When tagging your image, it is recommended to follow [Semantic Versioning guidelines](https://semver.org/). Semantic versioning is a widely recognized method that can help better maintain your application. Docker image tags should have the following structure `<major_version>.<minor_version>.<patch>`. Example: `3.2.1`.
2. Tag the Latest Version - Docker allows you to tag an image as 'latest' in addition to a version number. It is a common practice to tag the most recent stable version of your image as 'latest' so that users can quickly access it without having to specify a version number. However, it is important to keep this tag updated as the new versions are released.E.g `docker build -t your-username/app-name:latest .`
3. Be Descriptive and Consistent - Choose clear and descriptive tag names that convey the purpose of the image or changes from the previous version. Your tags should also be consistent across your images and repositories for better organization and ease of use.
4. Include Build and Git Information (Optional) - In some situations, it might be helpful to include information about the build and Git commit in the image tag. This can help identify the source code and environment used for building the image. Example: `app-name-1.2.3-b567-d1234efg`.
5. Use Environment and Architecture-Specific Tags - If your application is deployed in different environments (production, staging, development) or has multiple architectures (amd64, arm64), you can use tags that specify these variations. Example: `your-username/app-name:1.2.3-production-amd64`.
6. Retag Images When Needed - Sometimes, you may need to retag an image after it has been pushed to the registry. For example, if you have released a patch for your application, you may want to retag the new patched version with the same tag as the previous version. This allows for smoother application updates and less manual work for users who need to apply the patch.
7. Use Automated Build and Tagging Tools - Consider using CI/CD tools (Jenkins, GitLab CI, Travis-CI) to automate image builds and tagging based on commits, branches, or other rules. This ensures consistency and reduces the likelihood of errors caused by manual intervention.

By following these best practices for image tagging, you can ensure a more organized, maintainable, and user-friendly container registry for your Docker images.

Images categories in HUB:

1. Official images: Images that are officially maintained and supported by the folks at Docker.Are one word long.
2. User images:- Images created and shared by users like you and me.They build on base images and add additional functionality.Are formatted as *user/image-name*


```bash
# Pull a Docker image from a registry
docker pull mysql

# Search for Docker images in a registry
docker search mysql
```
