# S3

Amazon S3 (Simple Storage Service) is an object storage service offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS). It provides scalable, secure and durable storage on the internet. Designed for storing and retrieving any amount of data from anywhere on the web, it is a key tool for many companies in the field of data storage, including mobile applications, websites, backup and restore, archive, enterprise applications, IoT devices, and big data analytics.

## Buckets / Objects

In AWS S3, a "bucket" is a container for data. It is used to store objects. The objects include files or, more technically, any type of data that can be stored in the form of files. In terms of hierarchy, buckets are at the top level in AWS S3. Inside these buckets, you can store any number of objects. An object consists of a file and optionally any metadata that describes that file. It's important to note that you can also store folders within these buckets and inside these folders, you can again store objects. Object keys are unique within a bucket and they help in identifying and retrieving the object.

## Bucket / Object Lifecycle

AWS S3 Lifecycle is a feature within the AWS S3 resources that allows users to manage their objects so that they are automatically transferred to different storage classes or expire at the end of their lifetimes. It facilitates transitioning objects between different storage classes at set times or according to specified conditions, and can also automate the cleanup of expired objects to help reduce storage consumed by obsolete data. A lifecycle can be applied to a bucket or a subset of objects. Note that each transition or expiration activity is a separate action within the lifecycle.