# Configurations

Resources that Kubernetes provides for configuring Pods.

ConfigMaps
Secrets
Liveness, Readiness, and Startup Probes
Resource Management for Pods and Containers
Organizing Cluster Access Using kubeconfig Files
Resource Management for Windows nodes


------


## ConfigMaps

The Kubernetes resource for storing configuration data is called a ConfigMap.
A ConfigMap is an API object used to store non-confidential data in key-value pairs.

Pods can consume ConfigMaps as environment variables, command-line arguments, or as configuration files in a volume.
A ConfigMap allows you to decouple environment-specific configuration from your container images, so that your applications are easily portable.

ConfigMap does not provide secrecy or encryption. If the data you want to store are confidential, use a Secret rather than a ConfigMap, or use additional (third party) tools to keep your data private.

Regardless if you’re using a ConfigMap to store configuration data or not, you can configure your apps by
1. Passing command-line arguments to containers
2. Setting custom environment variables for each container
3. Mounting configuration files into containers through a special type of volume

ConfigMap holds configuration data for pods to consume.

1. apiVersion: v1
2. kind: ConfigMap
3. metadata (ObjectMeta) - Standard object's metadata.
4. binaryData (map[string][]byte) - BinaryData contains the binary data. Each key must consist of alphanumeric characters, '-', '_' or '.'. BinaryData can contain byte sequences that are not in the UTF-8 range. The keys stored in BinaryData must not overlap with the ones in the Data field, this is enforced during validation process. Using this field will require 1.10+ apiserver and kubelet.
5. data (map[string]string) - Data contains the configuration data. Each key must consist of alphanumeric characters, '-', '_' or '.'. Values with non-UTF-8 byte sequences must use the BinaryData field. The keys stored in Data must not overlap with the keys in the BinaryData field, this is enforced during validation process.
6. immutable (boolean) - Immutable, if set to true, ensures that data stored in the ConfigMap cannot be updated (only object metadata can be modified). If not set to true, the field can be modified at any time. Defaulted to nil





------


## Secrets

A Secret is an object that contains a small amount of sensitive data such as a password, a token, or a key. Such information might otherwise be put in a Pod specification or in a container image. Using a Secret means that you don't need to include confidential data in your application code.

Because Secrets can be created independently of the Pods that use them, there is less risk of the Secret (and its data) being exposed during the workflow of creating, viewing, and editing Pods. Kubernetes, and applications that run in your cluster, can also take additional precautions with Secrets, such as avoiding writing sensitive data to nonvolatile storage.

Secrets are similar to ConfigMaps but are specifically intended to hold confidential data.
Kubernetes Secrets are, by default, stored unencrypted in the API server's underlying data store (etcd). Anyone with API access can retrieve or modify a Secret, and so can anyone with access to etcd. Additionally, anyone who is authorized to create a Pod in a namespace can use that access to read any Secret in that namespace; this includes indirect access such as the ability to create a Deployment.

In order to safely use Secrets, take at least the following steps:

1. Enable Encryption at Rest for Secrets.
2. Enable or configure RBAC rules with least-privilege access to Secrets.
3. Restrict Secret access to specific containers.
4. Consider using external Secret store providers.

You can use Secrets for purposes such as the following:

1. Set environment variables for a container.
2. Provide credentials such as SSH keys or passwords to Pods.
3. Allow the kubelet to pull container images from private registries.

The Kubernetes control plane also uses Secrets; for example, bootstrap token Secrets are a mechanism to help automate node registration

Secret
Secret holds secret data of a certain type. The total bytes of the values in the Data field must be less than MaxSecretSize bytes.

1. apiVersion: v1
2. kind: Secret
3. metadata (ObjectMeta) - Standard object's metadata.
4. data (map[string][]byte) - Data contains the secret data. Each key must consist of alphanumeric characters, '-', '_' or '.'. The serialized form of the secret data is a base64 encoded string, representing the arbitrary (possibly non-string) data value here.
5. immutable (boolean) - Immutable, if set to true, ensures that data stored in the Secret cannot be updated (only object metadata can be modified). If not set to true, the field can be modified at any time. Defaulted to nil.
6. stringData (map[string]string) - stringData allows specifying non-binary secret data in string form. It is provided as a write-only input field for convenience. All keys and values are merged into the data field on write, overwriting any existing values. The stringData field is never output when reading from the API.
7. type (string) - Used to facilitate programmatic handling of secret data. 

SecretList - SecretList is a list of Secret.

1. apiVersion: v1
2. kind: SecretList
3. metadata (ListMeta) - Standard list metadata. More info: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#types-kinds
4. items ([]Secret), required - Items is a list of secret objects.
