# Volumes

Kubernetes volumes are a component of a pod and are thus defined in the pod’s spec-
ification—much like containers. They aren’t a standalone Kubernetes object and can-
not be created or deleted on their own. A volume is available to all containers in the
pod, but it must be mounted in each container that needs to access it. In each con-
tainer, you can mount the volume in any location of its filesystem.

A wide variety of volume types is available. Several are generic, while others are spe-
cific to the actual storage technologies used underneath. Don’t worry if you’ve never
heard of those technologies—I hadn’t heard of at least half of them. You’ll probably
only use volume types for the technologies you already know and use. Here’s a list of
several of the available volume types:
 emptyDir—A simple empty directory used for storing transient data.
 hostPath—Used for mounting directories from the worker node’s filesystem
into the pod.
 gitRepo—A volume initialized by checking out the contents of a Git repository.
 nfs—An NFS share mounted into the pod.
 gcePersistentDisk (Google Compute Engine Persistent Disk), awsElastic-
BlockStore (Amazon Web Services Elastic Block Store Volume), azureDisk
(Microsoft Azure Disk Volume)—Used for mounting cloud provider-specific
storage.
 cinder, cephfs, iscsi, flocker, glusterfs, quobyte, rbd, flexVolume, vsphere-
Volume, photonPersistentDisk, scaleIO—Used for mounting other types of
network storage.
 configMap, secret, downwardAPI—Special types of volumes used to expose cer-
tain Kubernetes resources and cluster information to the pod.
 persistentVolumeClaim—A way to use a pre- or dynamically provisioned per-
sistent storage. (We’ll talk about them in the last section of this chapter.)
These volume types serve various purposes. You’ll learn about some of them in the
following sections. Special types of volumes (secret, downwardAPI, configMap) are
covered in the next two chapters, because they aren’t used for storing data, but for
exposing Kubernetes metadata to apps running in the pod.
A single pod can use multiple volumes of different types at the same time, and, as
we’ve mentioned before, each of the pod’s containers can either have the volume
mounted or not.