# Securing API server


Cloud Native Security
Pod Security Standards
Pod Security Admission
Service Accounts
Pod Security Policies
Security For Linux Nodes
Security For Windows Nodes
Controlling Access to the Kubernetes API
Role Based Access Control Good Practices
Good practices for Kubernetes Secrets
Multi-tenancy
Hardening Guide - Authentication Mechanisms
Hardening Guide - Scheduler Configuration
Kubernetes API Server Bypass Risks
Linux kernel security constraints for Pods and containers
Security Checklist
Application Security Checklist


Kubernetes security mechanisms

Kubernetes includes several APIs and security controls, as well as ways to define policies that can form part of how you manage information security.
Control plane protection

A key security mechanism for any Kubernetes cluster is to control access to the Kubernetes API.

Kubernetes expects you to configure and use TLS to provide data encryption in transit within the control plane, and between the control plane and its clients. You can also enable encryption at rest for the data stored within Kubernetes control plane; this is separate from using encryption at rest for your own workloads' data, which might also be a good idea.
Secrets

The Secret API provides basic protection for configuration values that require confidentiality.
Workload protection

Enforce Pod security standards to ensure that Pods and their containers are isolated appropriately. You can also use RuntimeClasses to define custom isolation if you need it.

Network policies let you control network traffic between Pods, or between Pods and the network outside your cluster.

You can deploy security controls from the wider ecosystem to implement preventative or detective controls around Pods, their containers, and the images that run in them.
Admission control

Admission controllers are plugins that intercept Kubernetes API requests and can validate or mutate the requests based on specific fields in the request. Thoughtfully designing these controllers helps to avoid unintended disruptions as Kubernetes APIs change across version updates. For design considerations, see Admission Webhook Good Practices.
Auditing
Kubernetes audit logging provides a security-relevant, chronological set of records documenting the sequence of actions in a cluster. The cluster audits the activities generated by users, by applications that use the Kubernetes API, and by the control plane itself