# Helm

The package manager for Kubernetes
Helm helps you manage Kubernetes applications — Helm Charts help you define, install, and upgrade even the most complex Kubernetes application.Charts are easy to create, version, share, and publish — so start using Helm and stop the copy-and-paste.

## Installation


## concepts

A `Chart` is a Helm package. It contains all of the resource definitions necessary to run an application, tool, or service inside of a Kubernetes cluster. Think of it like the Kubernetes equivalent of a Homebrew formula, an Apt dpkg, or a Yum RPM file.
A `Repository` is the place where charts can be collected and shared. It's like Perl's CPAN archive or the Fedora Package Database, but for Kubernetes packages.
A `Release` is an instance of a chart running in a Kubernetes cluster. One chart can often be installed many times into the same cluster. And each time it is installed, a new release is created. Consider a MySQL chart. If you want two databases running in your cluster, you can install that chart twice. Each one will have its own release, which will in turn have its own release name.

Helm installs charts into Kubernetes, creating a new release for each installation. And to find new charts, you can search Helm chart repositories.

**'helm search': Finding Charts**:- Helm comes with a powerful search command. It can be used to search two different types of source:

1. helm search hub searches the Artifact Hub, which lists helm charts from dozens of different repositories.
2. helm search repo searches the repositories that you have added to your local helm client (with helm repo add). This search is done over local data, and no public network connection is needed.

You can find publicly available charts by running helm search hub:

```sh
helm search hub wordpress
```

With no filter, helm search hub shows you all of the available charts.

helm search hub exposes the URL to the location on artifacthub.io but not the actual Helm repo. helm search hub --list-repo-url exposes the actual Helm repo URL which comes in handy when you are looking to add a new repo: helm repo add [NAME] [URL].

**'helm install': Installing a Package**:- To install a new package, use the helm install command. At its simplest, it takes two arguments: A release name that you pick, and the name of the chart you want to install.

```sh
helm install happy-panda bitnami/wordpress
```
